Database
==================
2017-05-19




This is a major update of the ekom database (database.md).

You might get a better understanding of how this database works by reading the database.md document.




The most important things to important are the following:


Shop vs store
----------------
- a shop is a virtual shop, as opposed to the store which is the physical shop (or at least the one handling stocks)
- a shop is potentially multi-lingual and multi-devices
- a shop controls products at an administrative level (enable/disable), while a store
        controls products at a physical level (how many products are remaining)



Product vs product card
--------------------------


We sell products, however, we present them as product cards on the website.

That is, you first "seduce" the customer with a product card,
but then, when it's time to pay, only the products are considered.

- a product is unique, and must belong to a product_card, which is a container to hold/present products.
- the product must belong to one and only one product card     
- we always buy product, not product cards. A product card is just a way to display/manage products     
- a product card can be seen as a canonical reference for the different variations of a given product     
- all the products in a product card have the same attributes, and differ only by a variation of attribute values
- it's the product that holds the price, not the product card 




Translations 
--------------------------
Translation is a recurrent topic in any web application.
There are at least two ways to handle translations:

- using the application's translation system
- using the database

Using the application's translation system is arguably a more flexible solution
than using a database, since an application's translation system often provides
the concept of context, which is not present in our ekom database system.


So, note that when possible we would prefer to delegate the translations
to the application.

Now, there are two types of data stored in the database:

- static
- dynamic


Static data is predictable data, for instance: the name of the languages, or the names
of the currencies, etc...

Dynamic data on the other hand is rather unpredictable. 
It's data typed by the user: for instance the products labels and descriptions,
the product attribute names and values, ...



Our philosophy with the ekom database is to store only dynamic data translations in the database,
and let the application handle translations for static english data.



No images
-----------
Notice that there is no image column.
That's because in ekom, we have a philosophy on how to handle images: we use conventions for naming images, and 
so the image path is predictable, and thus doesn't need to be stored in the database.

Images are needed for products, categories, manufacturers, payment providers maybe, ...

The point is that it's always associated with something, and we call this something a type.

Here is why we do it this way.

First, we have a problem with the image insertion.
Imagine we had a table named "product", containing an image column.

The problem is: how do you know the path of the image?
Imagine the user uses a form via your gui.
 
The product is not created yet, and yet the user can upload an image.
Ok, but what's the path of the image? 

What we probably want is to create an image based on the id of the product, or the reference,
but since the product is not registered, you don't have such information when the user uploads the image.

And if you decide that: no problem, you will add a transformer AFTERWARDS, then the user might complain
because you change the name they give to the image, so that's a source of problem right there.

As a side note, don't bother having seo image path, just give a semantically correct filename to your image,
because apparently you won't improve your seo by tuning up every subdirectory leading to your image.

https://webmasters.stackexchange.com/questions/36434/what-should-filenames-and-urls-of-images-contain-for-seo-benefit

But back to the problem, it's a chicken-egg problem that we have.

And we have multiple workarounds available for that.
 
The one we chose is to not put the image path in the database.

Rather, we use a convention that makes image paths predictable; the convention is the following:

Every image is put in a directory representing the item to which the image is attached to.

For instance, if the image is attached to a product with id:650, then the type is product,
and all images for this product #650 are located inside the base directory:

```txt
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/

With $relImgBaseDir = img/products    // but that can be changed using the module configuration  
```

Then from that base directory, we have some other subdirectories representing the characteristics (size/resolution/other?)
of the image.
For instance:

```txt
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/default/     // contains the default images
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/original/     // contains the original images
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/thumbs/     // contains the thumbs
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/cards/     
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/650x200/     
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/whatever/     
```

The api should provide a way to access images, so that you basically only need to write something like this:

```txt
Api::getImages( type, imgType )
```

Each imageType (default, original, thumb, ...) can contain any number of images.

If you want to order them, you use natural sorting convention, because as we believe, this doesn't affect seo,
so you can do things like this:

```txt
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/thumbs/1-kettle-bell-front.jpg
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/thumbs/2-kettle-bell-side.jpg
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0/thumbs/3-kettle-bell-back.jpg
```

Our gui synopsis is that the product is created without images first,
and then (maybe in another tab), you have a dedicated window to handle/rename your images.
Therefore, the user can just focus on the image fileName (and not the whole path).



So that's the system we use in ekom, and if you think about it, it makes sense because:

- images are often grouped together, and so it's unlikely that you will need to control the image path
- often, all your images are located in the same directory, and so you can just import 
    them at once at the beginning (using a script for instance), and you are done migrating from another system to ekom
- Then on a daily basis, you can control the images order, and you never need to wonder where the image is 


As a drawback: if the product id changes, then you need to manually fix your filesystem; for instance if product #650
for some reason moves to product #653, you need to do the following:
  
```txt
Rename the following dir:
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/0

Into this
/my/app/www/$relImgBaseDir/6/5/3
```

As a workaround, you might want to use another unique column, like the reference for a product,
but we don't have an opinion on that right now.

The ekom module should (maybe) provide you with a config array where you decide the image paths and the column being used?
 
 
Last but not least, if an image starts with an underscore, it's not displayed.
This trick gives more power to the user, who now can temporarily disable an image without having to remove it from
the filesystem.
 





Measurement Units
-------------------

What's the problem with units?

Some attributes don't need units, like a color for instance: it's just a word; blue, red, ...
Other attributes use units, like size for instance; 55cm, 65cm, ...

Depending on the attribute, the lang and depending on the shop, you might want to use a different unit system.

For instance if you have a shop in United States and a shop in France, for the same product, you might want
to use pounds in your US shop, and Kilograms in your french shop.

That's the problem.

In ekom, this problem is handled by the api: you have a converter that does the conversion on the fly,
based on what preferences you have set via the gui.
Basically, the UnitConvertor stores your preferences in a separated file and re-use them if the
attribute/shop/lang (and maybe other criterion?) combination.
match the product you're displaying.

So, at the database level, we don't have anything about units.

That's because we try to keep the database schema as simple as possible.









So now you're ready to read...


THE TABLES EXPLANATIONS
=============


lang
=========

Strings that come from the database can be translated.

The lang table handle those translations.

We generally add the "_lang" suffix to a table to isolate the translatable columns
from the core table (the table without the "_lang" suffix).

A shop (front office)'s default lang is defined in the shop table.

The backoffice's lang is defined in the backoffice_user table.


- label: english label for the lang
- iso_code: a 639-3 iso code http://www-01.sil.org/iso639-3/codes.asp






backoffice_user
--------------------

- email: we might need to alert that user, hence the email instead of a simple login
- pass
- lang_id: fk|null, the lang of the backoffice for this user.
            If null, "eng" is assumed.
            
            
            





currency
=========
- iso_code: iso code 4217
- symbol: the symbol representing the currency (for instance $)



timezone
-----------
- name: english name of the timezone




shop
=========

This represents a virtual store.

It holds the configuration of your e-commerce.

Usually, on the front office, a shop is identified by a host, but not always.

A shop controls the products at an administrative level (enable/disable a product
is a per-shop operation).


 
 
 
- label: a label to identify the store in the backoffice (not displayed in front)
- host: null|string, the host used to identify the front office shop (if null, other heuristics are used to select the front office shop).
- lang_id: fk|null, the default lang used for this shop in the frontoffice (the backoffice lang being set in the backoffice_user table).
                If null, "eng" is assumed.
- currency_id: fk|null, the base currency used by default for this shop, both for the backoffice and the front office.
                    It is used as a reference for exchange rates.
                    If null, "USD" is assumed.
                    So when you create a product, it's price is given in this currency.
                    
                    
                    
- timezone_id: fk|null, the time zone used by this shop on the front office.
                    If null, "America/Los_Angeles" is assumed.





shop_configuration
====================

This is an extension of the shop.
Basically, providing a dynamic structure for modules/plugins to hook in.


- shop_id: pk
- key
- value



shop_has_lang
====================

The languages available to the front office.


shop_has_currency
====================

The currencies available to the front office.





store
=========

This represents a physical store.

It controls the products at a physical level (how many of this product are left).

It's a container for products, even virtual products (don't let the word physical fool you).

- label



shop_has_store
=========




product
===============

The product represents a unique product, that is a product with a unique set of attributes.

The product might be physical or downloadable.
A weight of 0 means downloadable, or at least it represents the intent of not charging shipping costs for this product.


The product might have no attributes at all.


- reference: uq, the unique reference                
- weight: the weight in kg for the product, or 0 if the product has no weight (like a downloadable product for instance)
- price: the base price without tax for this product.
                This price can be thought as the suggested price, or catalog price, and
                can be overridden by the seller on a per-shop basis using the shop_has_product table.

Why weight in kg? keep it simple: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_System_of_Units
                
                
                





product_lang
===============

- label: string, the base/default label for the product
- description: string, the base/default description for the product
- product_id: fk
- lang_id: fk



shop_has_product
==================

The products are available to a shop.


- price: null|string, the price of the product for this shop, or null to use the base price from the product table
- active: 0|1, whether or not the product is available for the shop




shop_has_product_lang
==================

Allow override of the label and description (of the product_lang table) for a given shop and product.


- label: string, the overriding label of the product, or empty to use the base label from the product_lang table
- description: string, the overriding description of the product, or empty to use the base description from the product_lang table
- slug: string uq, an unique (per lang) url friendly identifier that can be used by the application to identify a product using the url








store_has_product
==================
- quantity: -1|int, if -1, means infinite storage (this might be useful for virtual products).
            Otherwise, it's the number of physical products remaining.


Note: if the shop_has_product table sets a link between a shop and a product, this means that
the product is available to the shop; in other words, the shop owner is willing to sell that product.
Ok, so we expect also a corresponding entry in the store_has_product table, right?
This link/entry has to be done manually by the developer.

Okay, but what if accidentally the link is not found in the store_has_product table?
Just a theoretical case here, but I'm curious: what would happen? Should we display the product at all, or not?

I believe yes, we should display as much info about the product that we can, and we should use the "unknown" wildcard
for the user so that she can suspect that something is badly handled by the application,
and of course, we should log with high priority such an incident to the webmaster, so that the problem can be fixed
asap.

So, to summarize, the shop_has_product and store_has_product tables should be synchronized,
but if for some reason they aren't, this should not BREAK the front app.
Instead, the unknown key word is used discretely, and the webmaster is warned of the incident. 

The same philosophy shall be applied for other similar cases in general, because it's a front end api,
meant to be used by human customers.


product_attribute
=============

Attribute for a product. 

Attributes can be re-used by different products.

- name: uq, the unique name for an attribute





 

product_attribute_lang
=============

Translation table for a product attribute. 

- name: string, the translation for a product attribute
 



product_attribute_value
=============

Value for a product attribute. 

Values can be re-used by different product attributes.


- value: uq, a unique product attribute value
 


product_attribute_value_lang
=============

Translation table for product attribute values. 

- value: string, the translation for a product attribute value



product_card
=================

This represents the canonical product: the one humans generally refer to, the "abstract" product.

This is often the product card that we showcase when we want to sell a product.



product_card_lang
=================

- label: the label for this product card
- description: the description for this product card
- slug: string uq, an unique (per lang) url friendly identifier that can be used by the application to identify a product card using the url
- product_card_id: fk
- lang_id: fk

Label and description should be displayed by various widgets, such as featuredProducts (label),
and the product page (label and widget).


Whether to use the product card's slug or the product's slug is resolved at the application level.
At the database, we just try to modelize the reality of our business, and we try to provide a flexible model that
potentially can handle a maximum number of use cases.




product_card_has_product
=================

Binding product cards to products.

Note that this is NOT dependent of the shop.

This gives us a hint about the conception: the association of a product card to its children product(s) is as concrete
as a physical property of the product (although it has a more organizational purpose): it's a characteristic of 
the ensemble product/productCard that is inherent to the product, we cannot unbind/remove it. 

You might wonder why we didn't use a direct relationship between products and product cards: why the product doesn't
have a product_card_id foreign key.
That's because there is a possibility that one day we will want a store that sells products directly (not wrapped
into a product card). 
Although most of the time, we generally like to see the product card first, and then choose which variation we want
to buy (from general to details), if a store owner wants to sell products directly (trying a new concept, 
or for whatever reasons), then she could do it.



PRODUCT LAYER
===============

On the mysqlWorkBench schema I drew a product layer around the following tables:

- product
- product_lang
- product_has_product_attribute
- product_attribute
- product_attribute_lang
- product_attribute_value
- product_attribute_value_lang
- product_card
- product_card_lang
- product_card_has_product


This "product layer"'s tables can be seen as one atomic table representing one product entity.

That's to emphasize that first, a product is really a combination of a reference
with a unique set of product attributes.
That is, if you change one of the product attribute/product attribute value,
you are talking about ANOTHER product.


Then second, a product card is a well defined ensemble of products that share the same attributes.

This product layer doesn't depend on the shop!
That's why the product_has_product_attribute table doesn't depend on the shop:
a product exist as is, as a physical product with physical characteristics,
and then a shop can decide to own/sell that product or not, using the shop_has_product table.

Same with product card: the product card has is bound to the products as you would say a "red Stenhal Chair" and
a "blue Stenhal Chair" are both a "Stenhal Chair", red and blue variations being products, and the "Stenhal Chair"
being the product card.





shop_has_product_card
=================
- shop_id: pk
- product_card_id: pk
- product_id: null|fk, 
            the product that should be used as the main reference for the card (product card)
            This property might not be used by all widgets, but it's there just in case.
            The gui should always pick one up, because the price belongs to a product (and we probably want to display the price)
            The null value only occurs when the target product is removed, this is done automatically by 
            the mysql database relationship (investigate the foreign keys relationship for this table for more information).
            
             















tax
=========

Tax represents any tax that you want to apply to a product.
Tax is a complex topic, as a tax can be applied depending on various parameters:

- the user type (b2b, b2c)
- the seller location
- the shipping location
- the product type
- ...

But in the end, the tax can be modelized as a percentage added to the price of a product.

To make the model flexible, we use conditions to determine whether or not a tax applies to a given product.
 
If a tax is not bound to any conditions, then it applies.
If there is at least one condition, then all the conditions must match in order for the tax to apply. 


Note: the product must be bound to a tax to allow the tax computation in the first place.
 

- amount: the amount of the tax in percent





Tax_lang
=============
- label: 



Condition
==============

A general condition table.
This table can be used in various contexts (checking if a tax applies for instance).

- type: custom string to specify/group conditions by affinity
- combinator: none|or|and: default=none
- negation: tinyint(0|1), whether to prefix the rest of the condition with the negation operator (!)
- start_group: tinyint(0|1), whether or not to start the rest of the condition with an opening parenthesis
- end_group: tinyint(0|1), whether or not to end the condition with a closing parenthesis
- left_operand:
- operator:
- right_operand:
- right_operand2:
- ...: might be more in the future



Tax_has_condition
=========



Tax_has_product
=========
A more explicit name for that table would perhaps have been: tax_is_assigned_to_product,
or product_is_assigned_to_tax.

A connection between a product and a tax means that the product CAN be affected by the tax.

However, the tax will be effectively applied based on the conditions bound to the tax.


This bindure is decided at the shop level.


- shop_id





Appendixes
================




A. Get the base product info
=======================

You can get all the base product info from the following tables:

- shop_has_product
- shop_has_product_lang
- the table in the product layer

Get all the info from the "product layer",
ensure that shop_has_product is active=1.

Then any info (label, description, price, image) found in the shop_has_product/shop_has_product lang tables
overrides (if not null) the corresponding columns in the "product layer".
















