Api
==================
2017-05-20



The api is the developer friendly tool to communicate with the ekom model.

The ekom model is basically the ekom database, but more generally it's the storage containing any data necessary
to develop our e-commerce logic.

In other words, you don't need to know the database structure (unless you want to extend the model) to 
use the ekom module, you can just use the api.


Brainstorm, really quick
============

Basically, our api --and I believe every database based api-- will contain methods for:

- creating data
- retrieving data with search criterion
- updating data
- deleting data


We will be able to dispatch a hook logic for every method.

There could be other types of methods, but this crud logic will be predominant,
and as such that would be nice if we could automate in the long term the basic objects.

(that was a request to myself don't worry)


Automation is not enough though, as some methods need to be more powerful than others (but they still
can use the crud paradigm), for instance a product object will provide a method that will insert data in multiple tables
(the tables from the product layer discussed in the 2017-05-19-database model).

So, if there is any automation, it should be done with extendability in mind.

Last but not least, how do we handle errors?
Do we complain when something wrong happens?
Yes, if the developer is the culprit, throw an exception in her face is the philosophy.
Since this api is always manipulated by the developer, we don't need to think of another mechanism.



The Api
===============
The api is based on the following mechanism:

```txt 
Api->object()->method()
```


For instance:

```txt
row = EkomApi->backofficeUser()->retrieve( someParams? )
```

So, object is the "thing" you want to interact with, and method is the method of this object you want to call.
object is kind of a namespace/organizational tool for the api if you will.




The EkomApi
==============







